Explicitly specify calc() operand and result types (#38053)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/calc/index.md

## Description

There's a few points to keep in mind about `calc()`.

### Resulting values

The `calc()` function must stand in place of a full CSS value of one of the following types:

- {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}},
- {{cssxref("&lt;frequency&gt;")}},
- {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}},
- {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}},
- {{cssxref("flex_value", "&lt;flex&gt;")}},
- {{cssxref("&lt;resolution&gt;")}},
- {{cssxref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}},
- {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}},

> - {{cssxref("&lt;integer&gt;")}},

Author: ```suggestion
- {{cssxref("&lt;integer&gt;")}},
- One of the mixed types like {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}}.
```

> Or one of the mixed types like {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}}. `calc()` cannot only replace the numeric part of percentage values, length values, etc. For example, `calc(100 / 4)%` is invalid, while `calc(100% / 4)` is valid.

Reviewer: It seems weird to have the last bullet point as part of the following paragraph. Remove it from here, and put a last bullet of `A mixed type such as {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}}` ?

Also, the other bullets don't need the commas.

Reviewer: Also, I don't understand "`calc()` cannot only replace the numeric part of percentage values, length values, etc." Can you try rephrasing it?

Author: ```suggestion
Or one of the mixed types like {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}}. `calc()` cannot only replace the numeric part of percentage values, length values, etc., without also replacing the unit after it. For example, `calc(100 / 4)%` is invalid, while `calc(100% / 4)` is valid.
```

> The resulting value of `calc()` must be compatible with the context in which it is used. For example, `margin: calc(1px + 2px)` is valid, but `margin: calc(1 + 2)` is not, and is equivalent to specifying `margin: 3`, which results in the property being ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting value of `calc()` must be compatible with the context in which it is used. For example, `margin: calc(1px + 2px)` is valid, but `margin: calc(1 + 2)` is not: it is equivalent to specifying `margin: 3`, which results in the property being ignored.
```

When an {{cssxref("&lt;integer&gt;")}} is expected, the `calc()` expression can also evaluate to a `<number>`, which gets rounded to the nearest integer. So, `calc(1.4)` will result in a value of `1`. If the fractional part of the value is exactly `0.5`, the value is rounded towards positive infinity. For example, `calc(1.5)` will result in a value of `2`, while `calc(-1.5)` will round to `-1`.

> `calc()` performs floating point math following the IEEE-754 standard, which result in some considerations with respect to the `infinity` and `nan` values. For more details on how constants are serialized, see the [`calc-keyword`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/calc-keyword) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`calc()` performs floating point math following the IEEE-754 standard, which results in some considerations concerning the `infinity` and `NaN` values. For more details on how constants are serialized, see the [`calc-keyword`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/calc-keyword) page.
```

### Input considerations

- `calc()` cannot perform calculations on [intrinsic size values](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Intrinsic_Size) such as {{cssxref("auto")}} and {{cssxref("fit-content")}}. Use the {{cssxref("calc-size()")}} function instead.
- The `*` and `/` operators do not require whitespace, but adding it for consistency is recommended.
- It is permitted to nest `calc()` functions, in which case, the inner ones are treated as simple parentheses.

> - Current implementations require that for the `*` and `/` operators, one of the operands has to be unitless. For `/`, the right operand must be unitless. For example `font-size: calc(1.25rem / 1.25)` is valid but `font-size: calc(1.25rem / 125%)` is invalid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Current implementations require that, when using the `*` and `/` operators, one of the operands must be unitless. For `/`, the right operand must be unitless. For example `font-size: calc(1.25rem / 1.25)` is valid but `font-size: calc(1.25rem / 125%)` is invalid.
```
